[ Music ]
>> Lilou: Hello my
juicy co-creators.
Lilou here on the road.
I'm in England.
Again in England because there
is fabulous, fabulous teachers,
speakers, mystics
here in England too.
Not just in the US.
Not only in Australia.
But in England there
is fabulous,
amazing people like you.
We're going to speak
of time bending.
I know you like this topic.
Time. Time.
We're stressed by time in
our society, aren't we Tom?
>> Tom Evans: Yeah there's just
not enough hours in the day.
>> Lilou: There's not!
But we can do something
about that.
You wrote many books --
probably 9 books I think --
including "The Zone".
Including -- what are
some of the latest ones?
>> Evans: Well "The
Zone" is the latest one.
I've just wrote one this
year called, "This we are".
And what's interesting
about them is that none
of my books take long to write.
Because when you're in the zone,
time takes on this
ethereal quality.
>> Lilou: Yes.
It's like it comes
to us, and this is --
we're going to make this
video very practical and very,
very interesting, huh?
So tell us about the concept of
time and how we can change that.
Really not master
it, but make the most
of our time here on earth?
>> Evans: Fair enough.
Well listen, the main
thing is about time is
that it's an illusion.
And it's an illusion
that allows us
to have this experience
on earth.
So it's kind of useful.
So we don't want
to get rid of time,
we just want to manage
it better.
And the first thing to note
about time is that it's affected
by the speed of our breath.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: So if you want
to create some more time,
just breath a bit slower.
And that's why the
giant tortoise
that breathes 4 times every
minute lives to 140 years.
So it's possible that also
breathing slow will extend
your longevity.
So that's the kind
of thing to do.
And you're going to
do some belly breaths.
So you put your hands on your
belly like that, and you breath
in so your middle
fingers just part.
And then you breathe out fully
so then your middle
finger touches again.
And if you do about 4 or 5
belly breaths before you do any
creative task, that really helps
slow down the speed of time.
So you get more done
in less time.
It makes you less
stressed as well.
Which is kind of good.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
So of course meditation --
you speak of meditation.
And how it's important to do
that at least 10 minutes a day?
>> Evans: Yeah.
And well I'm going
to take people
through now a very
simple way to meditate.
Because a lot of people say they
can't make their mind go quiet.
But before we do that, we're
going to have a little play.
So I might need to -- how
am I going to do this?
I might -- I have to
hold the microphone.
>> Lilou: Okay.
>> Evans: And what I'm going
to get you to do, is I'm going
to get you to energize
both sides of the brain.
>> Lilou: So we just have
to make sure this
is a unidirectional.
So --
>> Evans: That's right.
Yeah. Yeah.
>> Lilou: -- make
sure it's towards you.
>> Evans: Okay.
Right. So what we're
going to do is this.
Is that the neurons in our
brain don't store any oxygen.
And what happens throughout
the day is we breathe
through different nostrils
without knowing it.
And when you breathe
through your left nostril,
it energizes the right brain.
And when you breathe
through your right nostril,
it energizes the left brain.
So what you do is you literally
hold your index finger here.
Hold your index finger
on this nostril.
And breathe in and
out about 4 or 5 times
through your right nostril.
And after you've done
that you flip over,
and you do it the
other way around.
And then through
the other nostril.
[ Pause ]
And this is a great thing
to do before you do
any creative activity.
It just gives you an extra zap.
Now here's the thing
about the brain --
>> Lilou: An extra zap!
>> Evans: Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
Just --
>> Lilou: I love those British
expressions that they got!
A zap!
>> Evans: [Chuckles] and it -
especially after lunch you
might have some carbohydrates
or a sandwich and we
get a bit sluggish.
This is a really
good way of doing it.
And you can -- when
you go out for a walk
and you move your hands
across your body like that.
That does the same thing.
It moves the cerebral spinal
fluid around in your brain,
and it gives you that
ability for the left brain
to talk to the right brain.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
Hmm.
>> Evans: And here's the
thing about the brain is
that the left brain and the
right brain have different
experiences of time.
So it's not that the
left brain is logical
and the right brain is creative,
but the left brain sits
inside space and time
and sees the detail and is
great at doing remembered tasks.
And the right brain sits
everywhere and every
when else and sees the whole.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> Evans: And when
you get the left
and right brain working
together on the same task --
which this nostril
breathing helps you do --
then it really gets you into
this slightly different time.
So --
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: But then we've got
to pull another trick off.
This is where we're going
to make our mind go quiet.
And the trick is to do
this with our eyes open.
Because you don't -- if
you're going to meditate,
you can't write when
you meditate.
Or you can't maybe
compose or do some art.
You might be able to compose
some music, but you know,
you need to have your eyes open.
So you have to learn
this technique
of eyes open meditation.
And it kind of starts by
just being slightly defocused
and our eyes going
into peripheral vision.
But just becoming
aware of our breath.
And when you become
aware of your breath --
when you're thinking about your
breath as opposed to thinking
about your thoughts, then
your thoughts go quiet.
>> Lilou: Mm-hmm.
>> Evans: So we think
about the in breath --
and we think about the in breath
as being the way that we inspire
and we bring thoughts and
wisdom and knowledge in.
And on the expiration, we bring
out our grace and gratitude
for what we're just
about to received.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: And if all you
do is just think about the
in breath -- there's the
incoming thoughts and the
out breath -- the
outgoing thoughts.
What you're going to bring into
the world through this process.
What happens by doing that
as you repeat that process?
is your thoughts about,
oh I'm not going to
get my book published;
I haven't got time to do this.
All of those other fearful
thoughts go quiescent
and get replaced
by these lovely,
beautiful thoughts instead.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: So this again warms
you up for this whole process.
>> Lilou: Mm-hmm.
>> Evans: But now what we
have to do is then move
into this position
of channeling.
Where we allow the external
thoughts to come in.
And it's an illusion
again that our brain,
is it just a generator
of thoughts?
So it's as much a generator as
it is a receiver of thoughts.
And we can receive
thoughts from what's known
as the collective consciousness.
Some people might
call it the angels
or the archangels or source.
You know? I'm fairly agnostic
about what that's all about.
Don't know the answer. Don't
know if it is beings.
Or I don't know if it is us
creating this collective --
all I know is when you get
into this mode you can
produce some beautiful work
that wouldn't otherwise
come out.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: And the way you do
that is you put your tongue
to the roof of your mouth.
And you imagine a
point about an inch up
and two inches back
inside your brain.
And then this is the point --
this is known as
the pineal gland,
or the cave of the
original spirit.
It's known as your third eye.
And this is about there,
but back in your brain.
So it's the top of
the spinal column.
So you imagine, if these two
lines were to meet in the middle
of my brain, that's
where it would be.
And we just imagine that our
consciousness goes there.
And you imagine that
you're looking
at the back of your eyeballs.
>> Lilou: That is cool!
>> Evans: I know.
And when you look at the
back of your eyeballs,
you're actually looking
at your own thoughts.
>> Lilou: Oh my God!
>> Evans: I know.
It's kind of cool isn't it?
>> Lilou: Isn't that cool?
You like it?
>> Evans: It gets
better than this!
It gets better!
Then what you do is you
imagine that from that point --
and it takes a while to do this.
It takes a bit of
practice to do it.
From that point you look up.
And you look up from the
inside of your brain.
And you see a hole at
the top of your skull.
>> Lilou: I love it!
>> Evans: And this hole is
where all the thoughts
are popping in through.
And they just pop down.
And then you get there, and
you just think of a seed word.
So let's say your
new book, religion.
You think of the
seed word, religion.
And you let your hand be taken
over and the words just flow.
>> Lilou: Isn't that cool?
>> Evans: Mm-hmm.
And like all these things, it
takes a little bit of practice.
And there's a -- on my website
there's a free visualization
that takes you through
this whole process
in slightly more detail.
But that's kind of the
way you get into the zone.
And after a while of
course, all you do is snap.
Straight in the zone.
Bang. Whatever is coming through
is there -- it's just there.
>> Lilou: Because the
inspiration comes really quickly
after that doesn't it?
>> Evans: Well I think you've
got to look at the word.
I love looking at etymology.
Right? So do you
know, for example,
that most humans can't
speak on an in breath?
So try and speak on
an in breath just now.
[background conversations].
Now there's always exceptions.
I found out the Icelandic
can do it.
And also I did a talk once
where there was a flautist --
someone that plays a
flute, and she said,
I can do it on the
in breath as well.
So there's always humans
that can do something
other humans can't.
But most people only
speak on an out breath.
And if you look at the etymology
of the word, "Inspiration",
it comes from the Latin spirare
-- which means to breathe.
And "In" which means in.
But if you look at the
definition in the dictionary,
it also says, it's not just
a person that's inspiring,
or an inspiring thing.
It's thoughts that come
from a spiritual direction.
So I had the enlightening moment
once that perhaps thoughts come
in on the in breath,
and then our actions --
we aspire to them --
on the out breath.
But actually what happens
is, it's the still point
between the two breaths
where the thoughts come in.
So I mean if you just --
if you pay attention
to the still point,
that's when the enlightful
moments sneak into your brain.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
But we can't think of it too
much, otherwise it stops.
>> Evans: Well yeah,
and if you think
of it, it stops [chuckles].
So then if you think,
oh I haven't got enough
time to write this book.
It stops. If you
think, I'm never going
to get this book published.
It stops. If you think
I'm not good enough.
It stops. Yeah.
>> Lilou: Are we touching here
what some call as alterism?
Mysticism?
>> Evans: Well you know what?
I'm an engineer, so
I call it practice.
I call it a practice
you can get into.
I don't ascribe any woo-woo
la-la type of attribute to it.
It just is what it is.
And it's a state you can get
into where you produce stuff.
So is it mystic?
Is it something otherworldly
going on?
Well all I know is that I
produced 9 books in less
than 4 years using
these techniques.
So it's got practical
applications.
And I feel healthier.
And I feel more vibrant --
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: -- and alive.
And I'm -- and also I'm writing
stuff that I didn't know.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: So I didn't
plan to write --
half my books I didn't
even plan to write them.
Then they just popped in.
And then only afterwards did I
find out that things were true.
I'll give you an example then.
I wrote a non -- a fiction book.
And I had a book
mentor at the time.
She said, whatever you do,
don't research while you're
writing; you'll never finish.
And I wanted Mars and the
Earth to be on opposite sides
of the sun, 116 years from now.
So -- and I -- because I've --
I knew a little bit
about astronomy.
I knew that ever
two years they're
on opposite sides of the sun.
She said, just pull a date at
random, while you're writing,
and then make a note
in the comments
to go and check the date.
So I pulled a date
at random out.
And then in the week I found
an online solar system.
And I wound the solar system
on 116 years, and on the date
that I chose at random, Mars
and the Earth were exactly
where I wanted them to be.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: So just
imagine [chuckles],
this is the sort of stuff.
And that's not a -- the chance
of that happening
is infinitesimal.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
So when you write the
book, you're tuning in?
I mean you're letting it
flow through your hand?
And sometimes I guess, like
any writer you have your little
blogs happening here and there?
Or does it just flows for you?
>> Evans: Well it flows, but
-- and I'm a morning person.
So I always write
in the morning.
Well I'm also a spring person.
So most of my books
are written --
I start them on the
Spring Equinox.
So I don't try and
write books at the times
when I'm not efficient.
If you know what I mean.
So I don't try and write in
the evening when I'm not good.
I don't try and write the
books in winter and autumn
when I'm not researching
the books.
And so it's knowing when
your natural cycles are.
I even write in tune
with the moon as well.
So the moon phase
affects our creativity.
>> Lilou: Mm-hmm.
>> Evans: You know,
we're 70%, 80% water.
And the moon has a massive
effect over the tides.
And it's no coincidence
that the lunatics come
out of the asylum
on the full moon.
We have more admissions into
hospitals at that time as well.
And the moon actually has
an affect on our creativity.
And when you tune into it,
there are certain times
when it's good to plan.
Good times when it's
good to dream.
And good times when it's --
for when you want to write.
>> Lilou: But from
what you're saying,
this naturally happens anyway.
>> Evans: It does.
Yeah. Yeah.
And sometimes what happens is,
if I find that I'm
not being creative,
I just go to my moon
calendar and go,
you weren't supposed
to be creative!
>> Lilou: It's okay.
>> Evans: Give yourself a break.
>> Lilou: And when
doubts pop in your mind,
what do you do with those?
>> Evans: Well when doubts come
in, I say, what's the lesson?
What do I need to learn?
And what is my internal guide
or external guide telling
me that I need to be.
So doubt might be you're
writing the wrong thing
at the wrong time.
You're writing it
in the first person;
it should be written
in the third person.
That sort of stuff.
Yeah?
>> Lilou: But all
being interconnected,
could we receive
some information
that is not actually our
doubts, and not our own,
and that we could
totally dismiss?
>> Evans: Absolutely.
And so when you're really,
really connected, then we move
into the mode where we
could become prescient.
And some of the most amazing
scientific discoveries are made
in that mode.
I mean this guy Kekule, he
-- a Belgian biochemist --
he discovered how organic
chemistry worked in a dream.
He dreamt of a snake
biting its own tail.
>> Lilou: Mm-hmm.
>> Evans: And he
got the benzine --
the structure of the
benzine molecule.
And from that, all our organic
chemistry came from this dream.
So when we go into
that quiescent point,
like when we're dreaming
or we're meditating
where the conscious
mind is quiescent,
all sorts of things can come in.
So just imagine if you're -- you
know, you're not writing a book
but you're in a company and you
want to create a new product,
then get in these
enlightful moments.
They just pop in just like
that and they're just perfect.
It's amazing.
And I'd love to see mindfulness
coming into business.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: Not just
as a nice to have,
and one day a year we'll
go on a mindfulness day.
In the afternoon, we
will have 20 minutes
of mindfulness before we
start our afternoon work.
>> Lilou: Mm-hmm.
>> Evans: And it's
in the candor.
That's what we do.
You get -- work forces
will be more productive.
Work forces are happier.
More chilled out.
Less stress.
Less days off because
they're not as ill.
>> Lilou: Can you
bring that to BBC?
>> Evans: I'd love to.
Yeah, in fact [background
chuckles] --
well on my Zone Show --
we finish the Zone
Show with a meditation.
You know, so it's important
that we have this sort of --
I'd love to take
it into businesses.
It should be in schools as well.
>> Lilou: Yes.
>> Evans: We don't have -- the
teachers won't be as stressed.
The children won't
be as stressed.
The parents will be happier.
Our bills with the health
service will be less.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> Evans: And it's free.
Tell us about the
healing portion.
How can we apply this to heal
a part of our body or something
that we feel is disconnected
or not functioning optimally.
>> Evans: Well it's an illusion.
We are an illusion.
Our densified body is an
illusion in the same way
that the clock of
time is an illusion.
And what you can do, with
a little bit of training,
is you can see outside time.
So as we look at each other now,
we're sort of seeing each
other slightly fuzzy.
And I can see a slightly
past version of you,
and a future version of you.
And what that means is the time
between us is just
softening a little bit.
And so when you have a
diseased part of the body,
which might also be an
internal thought form as well,
you can let that thought form
or that disease slack it a
little bit, and be replaced
by the bit of the body which is
healthy before the injury came
and after the healing
takes place.
And so you see the future part
of the body, which is healed.
You see the past part of the
body before it had the injury.
And you let them
solidify instead
of the diseased part
of the body.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: I call it
time bending therapy.
TBT it works a treat.
>> Lilou: And where
does that go?
The other thoughts of
the disease itself?
>> Evans: Well, if you
think about the disease,
most disease starts in the mind.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: So it starts
with a thought.
So if you've got a
diseased part of your body,
where did it come from?
What was the thought
form that kicked it off?
You know, if you've
got something wrong --
if you've got a,
maybe a heart ailment,
where's the lack of
love in your life?
Where's the love
not coming from,
and you not being
able to get it out?
And that's what -- that's the
biggest source of heart disease.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: You know, if we've
got irritable bowel syndrome,
where are the fears?
What seeded the fears?
Where's the stress?
You know? Ad of course what we
do is we give people tablets
and pills and things like
that, but we never go
down to the real source,
which is our mind -
it starts in the mind.
>> Lilou: Mm-hmm.
I just read in France,
there's 25%
of French people
have psychotropes.
You know, the whole --
the antidepressant and
all that every year.
>> Evans: Mm-hmm.
>> Lilou: 25% of the
population, my God!
>> Evans: Yeah.
Well and also in the US
there's loads of people
that take drugs for obesity.
And then they've got
to take pain killers
because their back hurts.
But we're not going to answer
the source of the issue is
and what they're reasoning what
they're putting in their bodies
and the exercise
they're not taking.
So we're trying to give
ourselves a pill for something.
And then when the pill
doesn't work we give ourselves
another pill.
And another pill.
And it's just crazy spending
when the solution
is actually free.
But it's kind of got
to start in schools.
You know? It's got to start
in schools, and it's got
to be brought into business.
So rather than, you know,
I'll meditate in the morning
because I've got to go to work.
Wouldn't it be great
is, at work I meditate.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: And imagine if you're
a forward-thinking employer
in a business.
You could have a
workforce that's so happy.
So productive.
So stress free.
Your competitors
won't get a look in.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
The meditation part, we talked
about it a little bit
earlier, but tell us again.
You just stop those
thoughts and focus.
What type of meditation
do you recommend?
>> Evans: There's two
types of meditation.
All meditations fall
into two camps generally.
One's called Samatha.
And that's when you
meditate on a thing.
So you can meditate
on your breath.
You can meditate on a light.
You can meditate on a mantra.
And when you meditate
on something,
or some of your thoughts go
from what you're thinking
to something else.
So you're meditating on the in.
On the out.
On the in and out,
the in and the out.
Or a mantra like
monaro har or that sort
of stuff or that sound.
When you meditate on that thing,
then your thoughts go quiescent.
And then you -- from that
position of Samatha meditation,
you can get into a deeper
meditation called upasana,
when you meditate
on thought itself.
And that's when you
take your consciousness
to the inner eye, to
your pineal gland.
And from there you can
move your consciousness
up and around your body.
So if you want to move
your consciousness
down to your heart center
or down to your gut mind;
your iterant mind,
you can do that.
And then when you have
your consciousness
in your iterant mind,
which is --
you know, our gut has more
neurons than a cats brain.
Would you believe?
When you're in that
mode, you end up being 5
or 10 seconds ahead of time.
So you can become precognitive.
You know when the phone's about
to ring, and you know who's
on the other end of it?
It's because you're getting a
signal from the iterant mind,
which is ahead of
your conscious brain.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: So the meditative
stance, or the meditative state,
allows you to do tricks
with your consciousness.
Which aren't just
making the mind go quiet.
You can achieve other things.
We can get information
from the near future
or from the far future.
We can retrieve memories
that we've forgotten about.
In a healing modality you can
take someone back to a trauma
that they might have
forgotten about.
So let's say they had a deep
trauma they've overwritten
in childhood, or even lots of
trauma happens in the womb.
And if you believe in past lives
as well, then we can fix things
that happen maybe in previous
lives as well by getting
into that meditative state.
So it's a hugely beneficial
state to utilize and work with.
You know? And I think
it's got applications,
not just in healing but in
creativity and productivity.
In inventiveness, you know?
>> Lilou: Mm-hmm.
>> Evans: There's no end
of places we can't use it.
But if we end up
in our monkey mind.
If we're sitting
in that sort of --
that internal commentary mind,
than none of this magic
comes into our world.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
And neither of the ego is there.
>> Evans: Well the
ego is kind of --
you know, the ego
is a good thing
because it gives us our
sense of separateness.
It stops my body, you know,
merging with this chair.
And merging with
everything else physically.
Yeah otherwise, so this sense
of ego's useful and it's kind
of what we've signed up for.
To experience the
separate existence.
Because we spend a long
time in the collective.
You know, when you're -- when
you're not in the mortal coil,
you're in the collective
and you're all with one.
And when we incarnate,
we decided to have
this separate existence
to see what it's
like and to learn.
So the ego's good for that.
But we've used the word ego in
a slightly different context.
And we call it, you know,
this person's got the
ego the size of a planet.
So the modern day context
of ego is different
from the real sense of ego.
So ego's good.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> Evans: But we use it
like, he's got a big ego.
Or she's got a big ego, or yeah.
And oh, it's got
a great acronym.
It stands for "Edging
God out" [chuckles].
>> Lilou: Yeah.
Yeah I love that.
I think I've heard that first
from Wayne Dyre.
>> Evans: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> Lilou: Actually there's a
really cool interview on Gaiam
that I did with Wayne
Dyre back in Maui.
Back in 2011 on a juicy tour
that I -- and if you want,
as we're talking here, and
if you have some questions,
don't hesitate to post
your comments underneath.
And, you know, save
the video for later.
Or go to other things.
Because I love how Gaiam is
structured that allows you all
of that, and that rocks.
>> Evans: Cool.
>> Lilou: What else?
I know you wrote on
the Zone and the --
getting into the abundant zone.
Getting into this lucky zone.
Is that related to
the time conversation?
Or not at all?
>> Evans: Yeah.
Well basically what
happened was that
"The Zone" was a book
I wrote this year.
I started it on the
Spring Equinox.
And I finished it at
the Summer Solstice.
So I wrote it in two or
three months, you know?
And it's about the
zones we get into.
And I started to explore
this concept of zones.
You know, when you're
"In the zone".
And I realized that
you can put --
with the word "zone" you can
put in nearly any English word.
You know, you can
have the aardvark zone
or the banana zone.
Or the child zone.
And so I picked lots
of nice things
that go with the word zone.
Like the productive zone.
Or the entrepreneurial zone.
The creative zone.
The performance zone.
And I realized that also
we end up in danger zones.
You know, so when
we're in a doing zone,
and the wheels come off,
we end up in a danger zone.
And these danger zones might
be guilt or fear or anger.
And then I came up with the
concept of the healing zone.
So we can transit
from a danger zone,
through the healing
zone, into a being zone.
But what I did when
I was driving --
>> Lilou: Because
they're all happening
at the same time, aren't they?
>> Evans: Yeah we can be in
multiple zones at the same time.
So let's say you're doing a new
business online and you want
to do a business -- a dating
agency -- online dating.
So you need to be in
the creative zone.
In the loving zone.
And in the entrepreneurial zone
because you're starting
a new business.
But what happens is people could
end up in multiple danger zones.
So you might have an addiction.
And then you might end
up in the addiction zone.
The anger zone.
Because you're angry at the
system for having the addiction.
And then you're also in the
guilt zone because you're guilty
because you've got an addiction.
So what I've found is,
you can actually --
I designed these zones -- when
I say I designed these zones,
I was driving along one day
and not thinking of anything.
And this idea came
in of a hexagon.
That every zone's got 6
sides and 6 aspects to it.
Now a hexagon is brilliant
because it's great
packing density.
It's like inside beehives.
You can put lots of hexagons
together and it's very strong.
And I realized then with
the hexagons you can create
super zones.
And so let's say you've
got some addiction.
You can surround the addiction
with some being and doing zones
and it annuls the addiction.
But also you can create focus.
So if you want some
more money in your life,
you can put an energetic symbol
in the middle of the zone,
and surround that
with other stuff.
And I've got some
magical symbols
from an esoteric school
I belong to in Germany.
And I used that as the
generator of abundance.
Surround it with other zones
that compliment abundance,
like magic.
Like creativity.
Like entrepreneurship,
and this sort of stuff.
And you put this on your wall.
And sure enough that magic
leaks into your world.
And I've got to tell
you this story.
As I came up with this
idea for hexacombs.
I was driving home, and I
just turned into my drive.
And as I did that,
a car came past
with H-E-X on the number plate.
Spooky.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
Yeah. Is there a
danger to play too much
with all those --
the life itself?
You know, that it
kind of backfires?
>> Evans: Yeah I think
if you hold fear.
Say if you have fear that
things are going to go wrong,
then they will go wrong.
And if you have --
if you do this
for your own aggrandizement.
So if the ego comes in.
And if you use magic for
your own personal gain,
then it has a tendency
of bouncing back at you.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> Evans: If you
know what I mean.
So my aim is that -- to
allow magic back in the world
in a very safe way, if
you know what I mean.
And whatever magic you
bring into the world --
if there's any black magic --
white magic is so much stronger.
So it's kind of intrinsically
safe.
If you know what I mean.
But your -- if you're
harboring a fear, it's --
it can be a little bit dangerous
to go down that kind of road.
But if you're harboring ego,
and if you want to use magic
to better your own position,
then it has a tendency
of just bouncing back at you.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: And I love that phrase
that magic is not --
it's entrusted to us.
And it comes through us.
We don't own it.
And I've got this
sneaking suspicion
that you're only
given enough magic
that you can be trusted with.
>> Lilou: Mm-hmm.
>> Evans: And if someone
does give you a bit of magic
that you're not ready for yet,
then it just bounces
back a little bit just
to tell you, just not yet.
If you know what I mean.
Yeah.
>> Lilou: Life is perfect.
>> Evans: Life is
intrinsically safe and perfect.
Yeah [chuckles].
>> Lilou: [Chuckles] you
look like a little bit
like a wizard don't you?
>> Evans: Well people
call me that.
I've got one client that
calls me Dumbledore,
which is [chuckles] funny.
But just for my sense
of balance,
my partner calls me
Dobby the House Elf,
just to ground me
at the weekend.
So yeah.
>> Lilou: That's wonderful.
What are some other concepts
that you go into or things
that we should know,
for example,
that we don't really
know in our society.
In our humanness?
>> Evans: Well I think
there's a big concept
which is kind of interesting.
It's that we have an illusion
that Tom is Tom and
Lilou is Lilou.
And what happens
when we incarnate --
and I found this out by when
I started looking in the --
more working with the aura.
Is that we're an assemblage of
entities -- of spirit entities.
So one goes to the
head and says, I'll --
for this incarnation
I'll do the head stuff.
Another one goes to the heart
and works in the heart center.
Another goes down
to the gut center.
They sit around our main chakra
points if you know what I mean.
And then we have our guidance
that maybe is not incarnate
that sits either our cerebellum
or just above our head here.
So we're an assemblage of spirit
entities all experiencing the
human condition together.
And one of them might be --
in our gut guiding us, the other
might be in our heart, loving.
And this sort of stuff.
And when we're not
feeling great,
what you can do is do what I
call a soul part integration.
And we can take a part
that is not functioning.
And we can change --
either change it's function;
give it a new job to do.
Or we can move its position
and we can install other
soul parts as well.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: So let's say
you want to write a book.
And you didn't feel that
you could write the book.
We could actually say, well
let's bring an intelligence
in that knows how to write a
book and we can install it.
And this is great work.
It's great fun.
It's like Lego bricks
for the soul [chuckles]
if you know what I mean?
>> Lilou: Yeah.
So why -- how about if you
don't know who to call?
>> Evans: Well I do this work
and some of the people I work
with are practitioners
of it as well.
And we all work over Skype,
so we can do it anywhere
in the world --
>> Lilou: Yeah?
>> Evans: -- which
is kind of good.
Yeah.
>> Lilou: Can you just call
good light beings, wonderful,
beautiful, loving
entities to help?
And kind of they
figure out who's who.
And what's for what?
>> Evans: You can, yes.
So just decide what you want
to do and what you want to be.
So --
>> Lilou: You have to be clear?
>> Evans: Yeah.
Absolutely.
Or you might say, I
just want guidance.
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> Evans: And bring it
in so it's not specific.
And then that guidance
will just pop straight in.
So whatever you need to do.
Or you might see external signs.
So you might say, look
I need some information
of the direction to go in.
And then you might see a sign.
You might see a number
on a number plate.
You might see something in a
newspaper and that sort of --
so for instance, I wanted one
of my books to be published.
And I had my -- I put my
submission into two publishers
and they both sat
on it for 3 months.
And I said, let's just see.
I need a response on this and I
want to get this book out there.
Asked for a sign, and within
one week I met 3 authors
that had all published
with this other publisher.
And so I submitted the book.
Within 48 hours I had
a publishing contract.
And without going back to the
original two publishers, some --
they picked something up and
they both wrote to me saying
that we're not interested now.
So just ask for guidance
and it will be given.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
I heard you say super
consciousness.
What do you mean by that?
>> Evans: Well you
know we've got the idea
about consciousness.
This self awareness.
We've got the idea
of unconsciousness.
Which is all the
things we don't know.
So you're not aware of
your big toe right now,
until I mention it.
And then you're aware
of your big toe
and all that kind of stuff.
You know. You're at a party and
then someone says your name,
Tom or Lilou, then all
of a sudden your unconscious
mind tells your conscious mind
to direct itself
in that direction.
The super-consciousness
is kind of a big concept.
Lots of people have
popularized it.
The mystics and sages of the
ages might call it Brahman
or something like that.
And Carl Young called it I think
the "Collective Unconscious".
I call it the
super-consciousness
because I think it's
a higher state, again.
And it's all of our thoughts and
memories from the past, present,
and future all collected there.
So other people call it the
neurosphere
that there's a theory that the
planet Earth is like a framework
which stores all this energy.
Other people call
it the I-field --
Irving Laslow calls it the
I-field --
the information field.
Some people refer it to
the Zero Point Field.
So what I like at the moment
is like the quantum physicists
and the mystics are kind
of converging
somewhat, you know?
And the quantum physicists
are saying,
well we must have
more dimension.
There must be more dimensions
than our three dimensions
for the math to line up.
And the theory is that that's
where the information is stored,
and that our brains --
and in fact our whole neurology
are quantum transducers
that can tap into and out of
this zero point quantum field.
Information field.
Super-consciousness
and this sort of stuff.
But if you're running your
internal thought process,
you block it.
>> Lilou: Hmm so it helps
to open the whole thing?
>> Evans: Open the crown, yeah.
Yeah [background chuckles].
>> Lilou: Yeah.
>> Evans: Work with
an open crown.
Work with open chakras.
Allow the magic to come
into your life and it does.
>> Lilou: Bring on the magic!
What are some of the other
little things that you would
like to share with us today as
we're closing this interview?
>> Evans: Well I'd
like to share the idea
that everybody can have
their dreams to come true.
But what you've got to do
is make sure the dreams
aren't self-centered.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: And have what
I call a meta idea.
So this is something that's
beyond that; a meta-strategy.
So my meta-strategy is to
help awaken the planet.
And so what happens is
people keep introducing me
to other people that can help
the awakening of the planet.
And, you know, right now
there are 7 million people
on planet Earth.
At any one time there's about 2
billion people that are asleep.
And out of those 2 billion
people that are asleep --
>> Lilou: Like asleep, asleep?
Or not awake, as conscious?
>> Evans: Because as the Earth
rotates, for 7/24 of the time,
then most people -- 2
billion people are asleep.
A billion of those
people are dreaming.
And out of the 5 billion people
that are awake, most of them are
in some sort of waking dream.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: And there's another
reality we can all awaken up to.
And so that's what I'd
love to manifest and help.
Only because I find that
when you awaken to some
of these possibilities, you
can live a more magical life.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: And wouldn't
it be great
if everyone could
share that, it's free.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
Yeah. And it's available
to all of us.
And I really feel this is
what we're stepping into.
And it's -- yeah
available to all of us,
regardless of our intellect.
Or regardless of our capacity.
Or of our past.
>> Evans: Yeah and you
don't want a big intellect
because that can get in the way.
You know? And that's where the
thoughts of ego can come up
and this sort of stuff.
So what you want is an
acceptance and a kind of love.
Moving our consciousness from
the brain to the heart center.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: You know, Rudolph
Steiner talks
about this, is the -- we --
over the billions of years,
we've woken up a
different chakra center.
And about 2 million years
ago or so, then our third --
our third eye woke up.
And now our crown is waking up.
And that the next
phase of humanity is
where the chakras
fall back down.
And when we got the word,
maybe you know, 100,000 years
or so ago, what happened is
we took conscious control
of our throat chakra.
And you don't think
about this now do you?
That as you have a thought,
you're vibrating
your throat chakra
and you're letting
those thoughts come
out into the airwaves.
And then you go into
someone else's brain
and they have a similar
thought to you.
And we don't even give that
a second thought nowadays.
And one of the theories is
the next thing that's going
to happen is we take our heart
chakra under conscious control.
We take our gut and our
sacral and our root chakras
and link the conscious control,
and then we can do all
sorts of other magic.
So if you go back a
million years and you talk
to a humanoid --
roughly the same DNA --
they wouldn't know
what you're saying.
Because they're not awake to
the magic that you're using
by controlling your
throat chakra.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: And this isn't a
new idea, this has been going
around for a few hundred
years now as an idea.
Is that when we use -- when
we take our other chakras
under conscious control,
we can do all sorts
of what looked like
magic with them.
>> Lilou: Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm. And it's all
accessible to all of us.
>> Evans: Well it's
worth playing.
>> Lilou: It's worth playing.
Yeah do you have a last little
practical exercise for us?
>> Evans: I think that what
I'd like to do is just take you
through another breathing
technique, which is really nice.
And this is a great breathing
technique for getting ideas.
I mean now what you do is
you imagine the breath starts
in your coccyx, or the
bottom here of your spine.
Now on the in breath
you breathe up.
So the breath comes up right
down the outside of your spine,
past your neck to your crown.
And on the out breath, you
mentioned the breath is going
on the inside of your spine.
The inside of your body
right down to the coccyx.
So in breath on the outside.
Out breath on the
inside of your body.
And you do that in
a circular way.
And you do that about sort of
7 -- it has to be 7 or 9 times.
See your numbers are important.
Before you start another
-- any creative task.
You've find the most amazing
enlightful moment will just
pop in.
It's free.
It works. You've got to breathe
anyway, so why not breathe --
you're imagining
the breath is coming
around in a circular breath --
it's called the inspirational
breath.
>> Lilou: Hmm.
>> Evans: Yeah.
>> Lilou: Thank you.
Thank you so much for this
delicious conversation Tom!
>> Evans: Thank you.
It's been very juicy.
>> Lilou: [Chuckles] juicy!
Conscious -- super-conscious!
Oh my God, my beautiful
co-creators,
sending you so much
love from England.
England. England.
England. London.
There is not -- it's
not raining right now.
There's quite a lot
of sun today.
Amazing.
>> Evans: Yes.
Well the sun shines
on the righteous they
say, doesn't they?
>> Lilou: [Chuckles] I hope
you receive this and you're --
you're doing well [music].
Big, big kisses.
Bye-bye.
[ Music ]
[ Silent ]